##Abstract##
##Covid-19 has had detrimental impact on the aviation industry as most travel activities were ceased worldwide. The Europe Union (EU) closed the union boarder to non-EU countries in March 2020, which led to cancellations of thousands of flights every day. Lockdown is an effective way to control the spread of Covid-19 as it restricts travel, implying the minimisation of the spread of such infectious disease via limited movement of people and goods within and between national borders. From the corporation social responsibility perspective, it is the airlines’ responsibility to respond and deal with this pandemic crisis. The costs that airlines have paid in response to Covid-19 has been tremendous; yet, their contributions during the crisis has been overlooked. The aim of this study is to evaluate the effectiveness of the EU lockdown on the control of the Covid-19 spread in the context of the aviation industry. Two quasi-experiment studies were conducted in this study. First, the regression discontinuity design method was adapted and confirmed that the EU lockdown causally ceased the flights to destinations in EU. Second, a two-stages spatial-Durbin model with an instrument variable examined the causal relationship between flight frequency and the Covid-19 spread. The results revealed that the spread of Covid-19 could significantly spillover from neighbouring countries to the focal country. On average, 1% decline of the flight frequency in a destination could decrease the confirmed cases in the EU by 5.65%. From the start of lockdown in March to the end of May, the EU aviation industry cancelled 795 thousand flights, which resulted in the avoiding of another six million people to be infected and saved 795 thousand lives. Lockdown is an effective way to control the Covid-19 spread and it is worth enough to pay any costs to save lives. Meanwhile, both the industry and policy-makers should start to plan how to better support the industry during the crises and recover the market strategically post Covid-19. ##
